Hello everyone in this lesson we will learn about comments.
Here's a quick overview of what we will cover.
So first we will answer the question what is a comment next we will answer the question.
Can I disable comments.
And finally we will answer the question what is comment moderation.
OK.
So let's go through these one by one.
Without further ado let's begin with what is a comment.
All right so here we are on the home page of my web site.
And before I show you what a comment is I think there's a good chance you're already familiar with comments
because if you've ever used Facebook or Twitter you know that when you post something your friends can
leave comments on that post.
OK.
And that same concept of commenting on posts exists in wordpress.
So for example if I use my main navigation to go to the travel blog archive.
And then if I click on this trip to the Midwest post from this trip to the Midwest detail post screen
if I scroll down towards the bottom you will see this leave a reply area.
So within this comment field box I can click to place my cursor there and then begin typing so I can
say this is an amazing post.
I love it.
All right.
And now finally to submit that comment.
I can just click this button down here.
And now whenever someone visits the detail screen for the trip to the Midwest post we scroll down below
the content.
Here we see that comment that I just left now because I'm currently logged into WordPress as the admin
or the owner of this Web site.
It was very easy for me to leave a comment.
I only had to fill out the one single text field and then with one click of a button.
My comment was added to the Web site.
However most comments you receive will not be from yourself.
They will be from other people.
So now let me open up another web browser.
Here we go.
And in this browser window I am not logged into WordPress.
Right.
So notice that there is no black admin bar across the top of the page.
So this is what the general public will see when they visit my website.
So now I will try to leave a comment as a stranger or just a random visitor of the Web site.
So I will click on travel.
And then I will click on trip to the Midwest I will scroll down to the bottom here I can see the comment
that the administrator left and if I scroll down further here is a form that strangers are just random
visitors of the Web site can fill out.
So first they will type out their comment.
The sky is blue.
And this post is excellent.
Thank you for writing it.
All right.
But if I scroll down a bit further we see that there are a few other fields that strangers or random
visitors will need to fill out.
So because they are not logged into WordPress we will want them to provide a name for themselves.
In this case I will just say that my name is John Doe.
We also want them to provide an email address.
In this case I will say that my email is John Doe at Jondo dot gov and then the Web site field is not
mandatory so I can leave that blank and then I can just click this post comment button.
All right.
And here we can see that comment.
And there's one detail that I want to draw your attention to this message that reads.
Your comment is awaiting moderation.
What this means is that currently Jondo is the only person that will see this comment on this trip to
the Midwest detailed post screen.
The general public at this moment in time will not see this comment.
The owner of the website or the admin will need to approve this comment before it gets truly published.
So the entire world can see it on this post.
So for example if I open up yet another web browser on my computer.
So here we go.
And in this window I am neither the admin or owner of the website nor am I John Doe.
So pretend that this window is just another random visitor of the Web site and if I go to the travel
page and then click on the trip to the Midwest post I scroll down to the comments you can see there's
only just the one comment from the admin.
So again in order for the entire world to be able to see that comment from John Doe an administrator
of the Wordpress Web site needs to review and approve that comment.
So let's do that right now.
So let me jump back to this window so you'll see that at the top of this window there's the black admin
bar.
So this is the window where I'm signed in as the admin.
So if I click on this link towards the top left that will take me to the Wordpress admin dashboard and
let's look in the left hand side bar for comments.
So here it is.
About halfway down.
Let's click on that.
All right and we see two comments.
WordPress highlights the comments that are awaiting moderation in a beige background color.
So for this first comment we see that it was created by John Doe and it reads The sky is blue and this
post is excellent.
Thank you for writing it now while my cursor or mouse is hovered over any part of this top comment these
options here will appear.
So in this case I want to click on this first option to approve the comment.
But if someone left you a really mean spirited foul comment or if they left you a spam comment.
We will talk more about spam comments in a couple of minutes.
You could click either trash or spam but again in this case I will click approve because this looks
like a very nice kind hearted comment so I approve.
And now if I jump back to my other web browser window where I was pretending to be a random stranger
and if I refreshed this page again this is the trip to the Midwest detailed post screen so if I scroll
down to the bottom now we see two thoughts on trip to the Midwest.
This is the comment we created as the administrator.
And here we see the comment from Jondo.
All right so that was a quick overview of what a comment is.
At this point let's change gears a bit and now answer the question.
Can I disable comments right.
Because comments can be great.
They can allow discussions to emerge organically on their web site but comments are not for everyone.
And comments are not for every Web site.
In a lot of instances comments will appear unprofessional comments may just not fit with the mood of
your website.
So first let me show you how to disable comments on individual posts.
So on a post by post basis.
And then after that I will show you how to disable comments for all posts going forward.
OK so for our first example let me go over to the travel page or I should say the travel category archive
screen and instead of trip to the Midwest let me click on trip to the east coast.
So if I scroll down here we see the lever reply area where I can create the comment.
And let's imagine that I want to disable commenting just for this particular trip to the east coast
post but maybe I don't want to disable commenting on my entire website.
So in that case what I would do is head over to my admin area.
Click on posts here is trip to the east coast so I will click on that and currently If I scroll down
towards the bottom of this page in the left hand column I do not see a comment or discussion box.
However if I scroll back up to the top and click on the top right screen options menu so click right
about here.
All of these new options appear.
And now we see this discussion option with a check box.
So go ahead and check the check box for discussion and then you can click screen options again to close
that menu.
And now if I scroll down towards the bottom of this page here we see a discussion box.
So the first option is allow comments.
Let me uncheck that and the second option reads allow trackback and ping backs on this page.
So the question is what does a trackback What does a ping back.
Well in this example if another Web site on the internet linked to my trip to the east coast post and
then someone clicked on that link from their website over to my website WordPress would create something
that almost looks like a comment but is technically considered a trackback where a ping back and it
would basically just list the other web site that linked to my post.
Now you're free to leave that enabled but 100 percent of the time I uncheck this box.
I never leave trackback and ping BACS enabled on my web sites because personally they seem tacky they
seem spammy because I have no control over who's going to link the content on my website and I don't
want to list a bunch of random references on my posts.
Anyways the key point here is that we are unchecking the allow comments box so let's scroll back up
and click Update.
Save this post and now if I use this link to go back to this post on the front end of my web site if
we scroll down to the bottom we see that that reply area to create a comment is completely gone.
It disappeared.
All right so that's how you can disable comments on a post by post basis.
Next you might be wondering what if I want to disable comments for my entire website so I don't want
anyone to be able to leave a comment on any page or any post.
Let me show you how to set that up.
So again let's use this link to head back to the admin dashboard in the left hand side bar towards the
bottom let's hover over settings and then within the pop up menu click on discussion OK.
Now these first three options are the ones that we're interested in.
So here we can see that these are the default settings.
These options will be used whenever we create any new posts in the future.
So for example let's uncheck this option first so it reads.
Allow people to post comments on new articles so if we uncheck that box now any post we create from
this moment forward will have comments disabled.
We can also uncheck this option.
So now any post we create from this moment forward will have track backs and ping backs disabled.
And then while we are at it we can also uncheck this option and that way our Web site won't attempt
to create trackback or pink backs on other people's websites.
So with these three options unchecked lets just scroll down towards the bottom of this page and click
on this blue save changes button.
All right so now any post we create from this moment forward will have comments disabled.
However I do want to point out that if you were trying to disable comments on your website entirely
these three options will not take effect retroactively meaning any blog posts that I created in the
past before I unchecked these options.
Those blog posts will still have commenting enabled.
So for example if I click on posts in my sidebar and for example if I click on easy spaghetti this easy
spaghetti post is one that I created in the past long before I just updated those universal comments
settings.
And so if I scroll down towards the bottom you'll see that it still has allow comments checked so I
would need to uncheck those boxes and then click Update so long story short if you are creating a brand
new Web site and you know right away that you do not want comments then one of the very first things
you do when you get your Wordpress web site should be to go into settings discussion and uncheck these
options.
If you do that right away when your website is still brand new and you haven't really created any posts
yet you'll be in a great position because then any posts you create from that moment forward will have
commenting disabled.
All right.
So we just reviewed how to disable comments.
Now let's change gears and talk a little bit about comment moderation.
So we actually already covered comment moderation a little bit earlier in the lesson.
So if I jump back to my admin area and in the sidebar click on comments remember this is the screen
where we can hover over a comment and then either approve it or unapproved it or market as spam or send
it to the trash.
All right.
And any time we perform one of those actions that's an example of comment moderation we are moderating
the comments.
That's really all there is to it.
It's pretty simple.
But I do want to show you a few settings that you can change to fine tune commenting on your Web site
to meet your preferences.
So in the left hand side bar towards the bottom if we hover over settings and then click on discussion
I want to bring your attention to this portion of the screen so it reads before a comment appears.
And then we have these two options that we can check or uncheck by default only the second one is checked.
So it reads comment author must have a previously approved comment.
This is the default option that WordPress gives us.
And I think it's a great option.
So nine times out of 10 I just roll with this setting.
Basically once we as the administrator approve a comment from someone then any time that person wants
to leave another comment on our Web site using the same e-mail address that we already approved they
are free to do so.
We don't have to approve any of their comments in the future.
I think this is a great option because it frees up our time as an admin.
So once someone leaves a decent respectable comment on our Web site we can trust them a little bit.
So then in the future we don't need to babysit them when they submit a comment.
It just automatically gets published.
But if you want to retain full control over which comments appear on your Web site you can uncheck that
option and check this box for all comments must be manually approved.
On the other end of the spectrum if you're a fan of chaos and anarchy you just trust people implicitly.
You can uncheck both of these boxes and then anyone in the world can leave a comment and have it immediately
appear on your Web site.
Personally to me that option seems a bit extreme a bit risky because the Internet is not always a nice
place and people might leave really foul comments that might tarnish the brand of your website or the
brand of your company but that's totally up to you.
So feel free to check these boxes based on your own personal preferences.
Personally nine times out of ten I think this default setup is a good way to go.
All right now let's change gears a little bit.
Remember earlier in the lesson I promised that we would talk about spam comments a bit later on.
So let's cover that now.
The question you might have is what is a spam comment a spam comment is not a mean spirited comment
or a troll comment a spam comment is a comment created by a robot that was programmed to scan the Internet
for websites that allow comments and then automatically leave pre-created comments that don't make any
sense that have links to other perhaps malicious Web sites.
Right so it's just like a spam email.
The villains of the Internet create spam email robots that send out spam emails to millions of people.
All right.
Well those same villains create spam robots that leave spam comments on every Web site.
Now spam comments are a big reason that I leave these options the way they are right so I don't want
all comments to appear on my Web site because 99 percent of comments are spam created by spam robots.
Now at this point you might be thinking to yourself.
Great.
Did I just inherit a fulltime job.
Do I need to constantly be on the lookout for millions of incoming spam comments on my website.
Well luckily the answer is No.
Now that's actually going to bring this lesson to a close.
But in our next lesson we will learn about perhaps the biggest plugin in wordpress history.
There is a plugin named Kismet that will block about ninety nine point nine percent of incoming spam
comments.
So in our next lesson we will learn how to install and set up a kismet and we will shut down those dirty
filthy spam robots once and for all should be a lot of fun.
Let's keep rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.